RFC: React Native Versions Lifecycle & Support (#503)
react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals: proposals/0007-rn-versions-lifecycle-support.md

# RFC: React Native Versions Lifecycle & Support

> >As we are finding ways to better support React Native community, we are moving towards supporting a limited amount of versions of React Native better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>As we look for ways to better support the React Native community, we will move towards supporting a limited number of versions of React Native better.
```

Author: Makes sense made the change

> 
> 
> >As we are finding ways to better support React Native community, we are moving towards supporting a limited amount of versions of React Native better.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>As we are finding ways to better support React Native community, we are moving towards supporting a limited amount of versions of React Native better.
```

Reviewer 2: Handed in https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/pull/513

The React Native Core team is working to strike a balance between the speed of innovation with the amount of regular change to the platform. We understand that each release brings new value and has an adoption cost to the community.
This document describes how we intend to formally balance these concerns and provide clear and consistent support over time.

> React Native team will work on best-effort bases to release a new version of React Native every four months. And will focus on speeding up the release cycle and put considerable effort into ensuring a seamless upgrade path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React Native team will work on best-effort basis to release a new version of React Native every four months. And will focus on speeding up the release cycle and put considerable effort into ensuring a seamless upgrade path.
```

Maybe instead of `React Native every four months` we could change the wording to `at least every four months`? I believe we should aim for four months to be a max, but I can also see us making release more often. That's not that clear imho from the current statement.

Reviewer 2: Agree on this. @Andjeliko can we relax the wording?

Reviewer 2: Included in https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/pull/513

> React Native team will work on best-effort basis to release a new version of React Native every four months. And will focus on speeding up the release cycle and put considerable effort into ensuring a seamless upgrade path.

Reviewer: seamless upgrade: does this apply to upgrades across patch updates only, or minor releases too?

Reviewer 2: It applies to any upgade. We're working on upgrading the upgrade path in general 👍

This document describes the level of support we can provide and which set of versions is supported.

## Glossary

Below we are defining terms used in this document:

> * **stable** **version** - Any version that doesn’t have a -alpha, -beta, -RC postfix in the version name.

Reviewer: here we're defining stable as "what it isn't", based on a property of the release tag, rather than what "stable" means. What guarantees exist in stable (i.e. what is the stability guarantee being made?) that isn't being made for non-stable releases?

Reviewer 2: Thanks for your suggestion.

> here we're defining stable as "what it isn't", based on a property of the release tag, rather than what "stable" means.

Did you have a specific wording in mind for this?

Reviewer: What I'd like to see happen here is some guarantee along the lines of e.g.: "there are no ABI breaks or other breaking changes within a stable release".

Reviewer 2: > what is the stability guarantee being made?

tl;dr: There are no stability guarantees between versions (this was never the case). Breaking changes are mentioned inside the release notes of each releases in the "Breaking" section. We're not moving to full semver in this policy.

To clarify: the scope of this policy is just to write down what we've been informally doing in the recent past. Should we move versioning or provide further guarantess between versions, we're going to update the policy to mention it.

Reviewer: understood - can you add a sentence to that effect, since this document talks about what the different release tags mean? e.g. "Note that despite the `-stable` tag, there are no stability guarantees. Breaking changes will be announced in each release's notes."

Reviewer 2: I would refrain from talking about stability in this document as it's out of scope. If `stable` is not a good term here we can maybe find a better term which is a synonym of `-stable`?

Reviewer 2: I cross checked other documents and we always refer to `stable`:
https://github.com/facebook/react-native/wiki/Deprecations

I couldn't find a better name and I think that `stable` here is clear enough.

I would also not add the sentence:
"Note that despite the -stable tag, there are no stability guarantees. Breaking changes will be announced in each release's notes."

as this goes in the direction of describing our API evolves, which should be moved to a separate document.

* **latest version** - **** The latest stable version with the highest version number (e.g. 0.68.2).

>     * The highest version number is defined following the [NPM server algorithm](https://github.com/npm/node-semver).

Reviewer 2: Handled in https://github.com/react-native-community/discussions-and-proposals/pull/513

* **next version** - The next version that hasn’t been fully released yet, and is currently in development/testing (e.g. 0.69.0-RC1).

> * **minor series** - A collection of version (either stable or not stable) sharing the same minor version (e.g. **0.68**.0-RC0, **0.68**.0, **0.68**.1 are all part of the **0.68** minor series).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **minor series** - A collection of versions (either stable or not stable) sharing the same minor version (e.g. **0.68**.0-RC0, **0.68**.0, **0.68**.1 are all part of the **0.68** minor series).
```

> * **minor series** - A collection of versions (either stable or not stable) sharing the same minor version (e.g. **0.68**.0-RC0, **0.68**.0, **0.68**.1 are all part of the **0.68** minor series).

Reviewer 2: `nightly` releases are part of our testing/release infrastructure. IMHO they should not be included here as nightlies can break overnight and we can ensure they're all working (nor we can bugfix a nightly or so)

## Which versions are currently supported?

> We’re supporting the **latest** **version**, and the latest versions from the **two previous minor series.**

Reviewer: Can you please clarify what _supporting_ means in this context? what is the group committing to?  (this may be a pointer to a section lower below, but it's important to be precise as to what commitments are being made).

Reviewer 2: There is a dedicated paragraph below: `## What is the level of support?`.
Isn't that clear?

> We’re also supporting the **next version,** having in mind this is the not yet stable version we are developing at that moment in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ll also support the **next version,** being developed, which will become stable after its release.
```

Author: Makes sense @asklar will change this as well

Author: Makes sense made chagne

> Versions:

Reviewer 4: I think that this should be a living table, so people can refer to that when they need to upgrade or take decisions. I guess that, as soon as this proposal is approved, we would write a SLA page in the website, am I right?

Reviewer 2: Yup this RFC is mostly for discussion and transparency. As we merge it, we can convert it to a page.

|Version	|Type	|Status	|
|---	|---	|---	|
|0.70.0-RC2	|Release candidate	|Will be in support when stabilized	|
|0.69.4	|Latest stable	|In support	|
|0.68.3	|Previous minor series	|In support	|

> |0.67.4	|Previous minor series	|In support	|

Reviewer 4: This is also the last version with the Old Architecture. Do we want to keep supporting this version, an exceptional longer support, due to its peculiarity?

Reviewer 3: The current versions also support the Old Architecture, is `0.67` that special?

Reviewer 2: Nope. Actually with the release of 0.70, React Native 0.67 went out of support.

> |0.70.0-RC2	|Release candidate	|Will be in support when stabilized	|
> |0.69.4	|Latest stable	|In support	|
> |0.68.3	|Previous minor series	|In support	|
> |0.67.4	|Previous minor series	|In support	|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|0.71.0-RC0	|Release candidate	| Not released yet |
|0.70.0	|Latest stable	|In support	|
|0.69.5	|Previous minor series	|In support	|
|0.68.3	|Previous minor series	|In support	|
```

> |<=0.66.3	|Old minor series	|Unsupported	|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|<=0.67.x	|Old minor series	|Unsupported	|
```

## What is the level of support?

Due to support bandwidth, the React Native team, with the community's help, is looking into issues & PRs opened against one of the supported versions.

Issues & PRs opened against older versions would be considered only in exceptional cases. Please update your application to one of the supported versions and raise the Issue/PR targeted to that version.

Issues should contain a [**reproducer**](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example) project regardless of which version they targeting, for them to be considered.

> Issues without a reproducer will require more effort to understand and fix, and are less likely to receive attention.

Author: Made the change

At this point in time, we are prioritizing issues that are related to:

* Latest version of React Native and two previous minor series.
* Use of the New Architecture

> * Use of the Hermes Engine

Reviewer 2: What do you mean? We don't expect the list to change that often.

## Cherry-Pick Requests

We’re **accepting cherry-pick requests** for the currently supported versions. A cherry-pick request is the request to include a fix in one of the supported versions and release a new point release with it.

Cherry-Pick requests should be submitted via the [React Native Releases Working Group](https://github.com/reactwg/react-native-releases/discussions/categories/patches), in the corresponding discussion thread.

> Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they’re involving security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they involve security issues.
```

Author: Make sense @asklar will change this

Author: Made the change

> Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they’re involving security issues.

Reviewer: agree that there needs to be a tie-in to a security policy too.

> Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they’re involving security issues.

Reviewer 2: There is a paragraph at the end of the policy around this.
Plus there is a paragraph on the website about it: https://reactnative.dev/contributing/overview#security-bugs

> Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they’re involving security issues.

Reviewer 2: > however, it does not detail what counts as "bad enough" for a security issue to be worth fixing as per this policy. IMO there should be some criteria regarding what constitutes "we'll fix and backport this issue" vs. "we'll only fix this in latest", vs. "we won't fix it".

I believe the agreement is that we will consider each security issue on a case by case basis, hence the lack of clarity. We can mention this if it makes the policy clearer

> Please note that each cherry-pick request will be assessed and approved individually. Cherry-Pick requests against unsupported versions will be rejected unless they’re involving security issues.

Author: Thank you for raising this @asklar  will go through your suggestion and merge them forward in a separate PR.

## Security Issues

> Security issues should follow our issue report policy [described here](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#security-bugs)

Reviewer: this page does not mention anything related to security:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22989529/189715249-8b02271e-aa44-44f0-b29d-1686346d0e3b.png)

Reviewer: in other words there is no `security-bugs` section

Reviewer 2: Yup the link should be updated to: https://reactnative.dev/contributing/overview#security-bugs

## Licence

> React Native is open-source software distributed under the **MIT license**. Software is provided "as is" without warranty.

Reviewer 5: is this section needed? 🤔

Reviewer 2: To some extent yes, as there are no legal obligations arising by this policy, aside from those under the MIT license (so it's like a reminder).
